# Verbal-Math
In many developing countries, children’s access to education can be limited by numerous factors. Underfunded schools, language barriers, and gender roles can all have an impact in the service of quality education. It is therefore important to have a method for teaching that is both accessible and engaging for students. Specifically in crowded underdeveloped schools, the teacher's heavy workload, or the large number of students attending class, makes it difficult to provide appropriate and timely assessment and feedback. In order to aid in the process, one can look in the direction of Computer-Aided Assessment (CAA) systems. Over the past two decades, there has been a change in the way students' learning is conceived. There are new stimulants in a learning environment and it has gone from being characterized as a process of transmission of knowledge from teacher to students to being a process in which students construct their own knowledge [5]. Because of this, mobile technologies can be used to the benefit of education, and thus either increase the quality of pre-existing teaching methods or provide new ones altogether.  Our main contribution is the creation of an educational math app, customizable to multiple cultural environments, where students will be able to verbally learn math. 
BACKGROUND
The introduction of Computer-Aided Assessment systems in the process of teaching and learning mathematics has been done in a variety of ways [6]. The simplest form of these systems are those in which students have to choose the correct answer from a number of options (multiple choice questions). In other cases, students simply enter the final answer to a particular exercise and the system evaluates it. Although these two types of systems do provide automatic assessment, the feedback only refers to the final solution and disregards the steps followed in the process. Therefore the feedback has no effect on memory and the child fails to have any attachment to the questions nor the feedback.  
According to an exploratory study which was conducted in an inclusive fourth grade classroom, students used three non-verbal math apps that employed visual strategies to support learning of decimals and multiplication. Pre- and post-tests showed that use of the math apps improved student learning in mathematics [8]. The addition of a verbal aspect to our educational math app however further helps create auditory links in memory pathways, alongside visual links which helps improve two cognitive functions namely memory and processing speed [3].
Although verbal math apps are not very common, using mobile applications for speech-language therapy has become widely accessible over the last decade. For children with speech disorders, apps provide an opportunity for increased practice outside of usual clinical settings. This was demonstrated in a study comparing computer-led and parent-led home therapy for children with speech disorders [5]. However it can be challenging to locate high quality speech therapy apps for children. Although there are more than 5000 apps, less than 3% met criteria as an effective teaching method [1], which shows the lack of accessibility. 
METHODS
In our application we wish to provide formative assessment of simple mathematical equations by incorporating verbal aspects as an input for the answer. When we started to look at ways to implement a verbal application using both a browser-accessible website and a downloadable phone application, we initially looked into Flask and Kivy. Development began on both ends to measure the effectiveness of each medium, with both media utilizing the Speech Recognition python library. Speech recognition is a python library that is mainly supported by Google cloud speech API and IBM speech to text API. 
We performed tests to see if Speech Recognition was the best choice for a speech to text library. The tests included checking the effectiveness of SR for background noise, accents and volume. The tests that have been conducted with regards to the background noise, indicate that Speech Recognition has issues when background noise is too loud (intuitively). The module however had less trouble with recognizing numbers than phrases. When testing different ranges of volume, it seems like a major volume change affects the accuracy, but in a similar manner to background noise we noticed the differences are not significant. The most promising result however was how SR adapted to accents, we ran results for different Ghanaian and Ethiopian accents. The samples were taken from native speakers of Akan, Twi, Fanti, Ewe and Amharic speaking approximately the same levels of English as a second language. We had noticed that SR was not affected by the change in accents. 
Ultimately we focused on Kivy for the time being, as it was easier to manage and could be put on a phone as an app, which we were interested in - this decision wasn’t easy though, as each still has pros and cons. Kivy is a module that is not only reliant on Python Code, but .kv files as well. This separation exists to ensure separation of concerns when it comes to designing the app, as this allows .kv files to take on the duty of having all of the information about the layout of each individual screen the app will have, thus making the Python Code focus more on the logic of the app. For instance, a button may be created in a .kv file, but its functions are laid out in the Python file. The logic for our app was quite simple: The player would enter a Main Menu where they would be able to choose between options:
Add	  	Allows the user to be given an addition problem
Subtract 	Allows the user to be given a subtraction problem
Multiply	Allows the user to be given a multiplication problem
Divide		Allows the user to be given a division problem
Mix		Randomizes the problem given to the player
Exit		Exits the app
After the player makes any choice other than the Exit button, they will be taken to a screen, where a randomized mathematical problem will be given to them, with numbers ranging from 1 to 40. Initially, each of the 4 actions had its own definition, though we quickly noticed that for division most problems would be meaningless as their overwhelming majority had the form of xx=1 or x1=x, due to the presence of prime numbers. To counteract this, we developed a different strategy, where actions would use the same code to generate results, with the exception of argument swapping. This way, Addition and Subtraction were linked together, and the same happened with Multiplication and Division. This not only eliminated our previous issue, but also made the process of code modification and debugging easier.
Stylistically, we focused on 3 main aspects.  Firstly, we were going for something very simple, minimal, and easy to understand by children of any age and education level - we didn’t want any major text, which would be difficult for students who were still learning to read, or for those who speak other languages.  We also created a buttonless recording system, where the child can click anywhere to start recording, and then the recording automatically stops once the child stops talking.  This adds to that simplicity.  Finally, our last goal was to make it appealing to children - even though we’re going for a minimalistic approach, after talking to several teachers we knew that minimal text and bright colors would be our winning combination.
We then requested feedback through a survey on our application from 2 major groups of people: undergraduate student teachers in the US and Elementary teachers in Ethiopia. The survey involves two sections. The first section assessed different questions that pertain to the current status of their classrooms. How big is your classroom? Approximately how many weeks do you ideally spend on an arithmetic operation? Have you incorporated technology aided learning before? What are your current struggles when teaching? How would you like to improve the quality of learning in your classroom? The second section of our survey was asked after a brief introduction and use of our application. The questions include What do you think can be improved? Will this be helpful to children in your classroom? Is it engaging enough for you? Do you think the verbal aspect of this app will have an impact on children's learning? 
RESULTS
The responses to the first section of our questionnaire was very different between the two sections of teachers. As mentioned above the first section assessed different questions that pertain to the current status of the teacher’s classrooms. The undergraduate student teachers mentioned that their class has an average of 22 students, whereas teachers in Ethiopia mentioned that there are on average 38 students in their class. Due to the differences in these numbers we noticed that the number of weeks students ideally spend on arithmetic operations is longer in Ethiopia. “For Division it takes me 3-4 weeks to lay a proper foundation in the class.” (4th grade Math teacher in Ethiopia).  The incorporation of technology aided learning also seems to be easier for teachers in the US, because of access and proper funding. When asked “How do you feel about technology-aided learning? Do you feel like phones pose a threat to a learning environment? If yes, do you believe that its use can be altered to alleviate these threats?” Teachers in Ethiopia responded by mentioning that “technology aided learning is advisable/useful but not available.” 
We were however able to see a major overlap in answers to questions in the second section. The idea that extra practice is necessary outside of the classroom was a very common theme among both sections. “I think the simplicity adds to the focus that students should have when working on math problems, which provides further practice” (Student Teacher). They further mentioned that the verbal aspect of this application will help create a sense of community. “The app also offers a little competition that would be popular among students, even though students work through the problems on their own” (2nd grade Math teacher in Ethiopia). He further mentions that “There should be longer problems with more numbers. I think it’s more challenging that way. Or if there is a way to increase/go up in level over time then that would also be a good addition to the app”. One of the most effective things we had done however is “provide an adequate representation of educational content tailored to students who don’t speak English”. 
There are diverse factors that hinder the use of our educational software to its full potential; some of the challenges faced by the group are directly linked with the development of the feedback within our app. Student teachers mentioned that “there needs to be a way for teachers to see the progress students make in their app.” Another major theme that overlaps between the two sections is the importance of usability. Usability is particularly significant for educational software. It is well documented (Andrade-Aréchiga et al., 2012, Ardito et al., 2005, Costabile et al., 2005, Wong et al., 2003) that a lack of usability slows down student's learning, causing them to spend more time trying to understand the system instead of focusing on achieving learning objectives. Student teachers mentioned that the simplicity adds positively to our application but the audio lag experienced when questions are read out to students by the app fails to represent a simplistic design. 
FURTHER STEPS/ISSUES
It is important to note that despite our best efforts, there are still improvements that can be made on our verbal math project. For instance, despite being careful about data usage, the Kivy version of our app still requires data to download, and furthermore, there is still the need for an internet connection while the app is running in order to allow for the implementation of a speech module. Another problem we have run into when trying to implement a way for the app to read out the problems that it gives, is the 3 to 5 second audio lag. The audio happens before the visual cues, which might be disorienting for the user. 
This, we believe, is a very valuable learning experience for future attempts at creating such an app. One of our mistakes is that we were attempting to create a very basic version of the application, which Kivy was able to do flawlessly, but when we tried to implement further features, there was a struggle with what Kivy could offer. It is therefore recommended that future attempts at creating the app should involve the use of flask or React. Kivy was very effective for creating a concept demo for our idea, though we encourage other developers to do further research on their preferred engine for commercial production.
CONCLUSION
Throughout this paper, we discussed the creation of the process of creating a verbal mathematical application. The reason why this endeavor is so important is because it opens up the possibility for bringing the verbal aspect in education from the literary field to STEM, in order to explore  a potential teaching strategy using a popular medium. We conclude that the creation of a mobile app for this very purpose is not only possible, but very helpful to improve the learning environment as well. It is important to take notice, however, of the issues that might arise with the introduction of a medium for teaching, especially that of student acclimation to that medium. Further research on this topic is encouraged and some recommendations for potential research includes the effectiveness of a verbal app, in attempts of finding the perfect balance between feature richness and ease of use for a mathematical application. It is also encouraged that verbal apps are tested out on other STEM fields to observe how effective they can be.
REFERENCES
[1] Furlong, Lisa, et al. “Mobile Apps for Treatment of Speech Disorders in Children: An Evidence-Based Analysis of Quality and Efficacy.” PLOS ONE, Public Library of Science, https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0201513.
[2] Howard, Sara. “Children with Speech Sound Disorders.” The Handbook of Language and Speech Disorders, 2010, pp. 337–361., https://doi.org/10.1002/9781444318975.ch15.
[3] Nouchi R; Taki Y; Takeuchi H; Hashizume H; Nozawa T; Sekiguchi A; Nouchi H;  Kawashima R; “Beneficial Effects of Reading Aloud and Solving Simple Arithmetic Calculations (Learning Therapy) on a Wide Range of Cognitive Functions in the Healthy Elderly: Study Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial.” Trials, U.S. National Library of Medicine, https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22483196/.
[4] Shadiev, R., Huang, Y. M., & Hwang, J. P. (2017). Investigating the effectiveness of
speech-to-text recognition application on learning performance, attention, and meditation.
Educational Technology Research and Development, 65(5), 1239-1261.
[5] Shadiev, R., Hwang, W. Y., & Liu, T. Y. (2018). A Study of the use of wearable devices for
healthy and enjoyable English as a foreign language learning in authentic contexts. Educational
Technology & Society, 21(4), 217–231.
[6] Shadiev, R., & Sintawati, W. (2020a). A Review of research on intercultural learning supported by technology. Educational Research Review, 100338. doi:10.1016/j.edurev.2020.100338
[7] Xie, Yao Jie, et al. "Relationships Between the Usage of Televisions, Computers, and Mobile Phones and the Quality of Sleep in a Chinese Population: Community-Based Cross-Sectional Study." Journal of medical Internet research 22.7 (2020): e18095.
[8] Zhang, Meilan|Trussell. “Using Math Apps for Improving Student Learning: An Exploratory Study in an Inclusive Fourth Grade Classroom.” TechTrends: Linking Research and Practice to Improve Learning, Springer. New York, NY. http://www.springerlink.com, 28 Feb. 2015, https://eric.ed.gov/?id=EJ1050818. 

